---
layout: default
title: How to use uvm_event and uvm_event_pool
parent: UVM Randoms
grand_parent: My Randoms
description: How to use uvm event pool
comments: true
share: true
tags: [uvm]
nav_order: 1
toc_en: true
---

# How to use uvm_event and uvm_event_pool
Systemverilog already has `event`, used for communication and synchronization. However if using uvm, my opinion is we should use `uvm_event` instead.
It's a class, so we can easily to manage the event in oop style. And thanks to that, `uvm_event_pool` is created to support us.
{: .fs-5 .fw-500 }

---
## uvm_event vs Systemverilog event
My opinion is, always use the `uvm_event`, because it has many advantages over the Systemverilog `event`:
1. Supporting more functions, easier to control the event and also more readable.
For example, given the event named `func_done`, trigger the event with `func_done.trigger()` is much more clear than `->func_done`.
1. Allowing passing data with the event.
1. Having callback function, which will be run before and after the event is triggered.
1. Having `uvm_event_pool`, which is very convenience in sharing the event between components in the environment.

---
## How to use uvm_event and uvm_event_pool

### uvm_event class basic function
The `uvm_event#(T)` class supports several basic methods as below:
* *`new()`*: Creates a new event object
* *`trigger()`*: Trigger the event.
* *`wait_trigger()`*: Waits for the next trigger of the event.
* *`wait_ptrigger()`*: Waits for a persistent trigger of the event, avoids the event race conditions.
* *`is_on()`*: Returns 1 if the event has triggered.
* *`is_off()`*: Returns 1 if the event has not been triggered since created or reset.
* *`wait_on()`*: Waits for the event to be triggered for the *first* time, returns if the event is already triggered.
* *`wait_off()`*: When the event is triggered and "*on*", this method wait for the event to be "*off*" by reset method.
* *`reset()`*: Resets the event, turns its state to "*off*".
* *`get_trigger_time()`*: Returns the time when the event was last triggered.
* *`get_num_waiters()`*: Returns the number of processes currently waiting on the event.

### Event race condition and persistent trigger
When the `trigger()` method and the `wait_trigger()` method are called at the same simulation time, we call it event race condition.

When this happens, we will not know if the `trigger()` is occurred before or after the `wait_trigger()`.
If the `trigger()` is executed first, we end up in a deadlock situation.
The reason is the `wait_trigger()` will wait for the next trigger of the event, but it the `trigger()` is already processed prior to the wait.

To avoid this race condition, we can use the `wait_ptrigger()` instead of `wait_trigger()`.
This function will consider the trigger event as persistent for certain amount of time.
Therefore when the race condition as above happens, this `wait_ptrigger()` will still recognize the trigger event, and then return immediately as expected.

We can also avoid race condition by having a coding convention as below:
{% highlight verilog %}
uvm_event m_my_event = new();

//for trigger,
//only trigger when the state of event is off (by reset or the event has not been trigger at all)
m_my_event.wait_off();
m_my_event.trigger();

//for wait_trigger, reset the event to off state after wait_trigger() return
m_my_event.wait_trigger();
m_my_event.reset();
{% endhighlight %}

### uvm_event_pool
The `uvm_event_pool` is a `uvm_pool` for events.

{% highlight verilog %}
typedef uvm_object_string_pool #(uvm_event#(uvm_object)) uvm_event_pool;
{% endhighlight %}

We'll go in detail of `uvm_pool` in another post.
In this post, let's think of it as a global associative array
where the keys are strings of event names, and the values are the `uvm_event` objects.

Also, `uvm_pool` is a [ singleton class ]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/x_myrandoms/systemverilog_randoms/2021-09-03-singleton-class-in-systemverilog.md %}),
that explains why it has global access.

`uvm_event_pool` support several methods, but the most commonly used is `get_global()`.
* *`get_global(<string key>)`*: Return the uvm event object that stored in `uvm_event_pool` with `<string key>`.
If no item exist by the given input string, a new `uvm_event` object will be created for that key.

So to create/get an uvm_event which is shared globally, we just need to call:
{% highlight verilog %}
   // if there is no uvm_event stored under name "test_finish_ev",
   // a new uvm_event object will be created by the pool
   uvm_event m_finish_ev = uvm_event_pool::get_global("test_finish_ev");
   m_finish_ev.wait_trigger();

   // We can directly use the event as below,
   // no need to care if the event is created or not, since the pool will handle that

   // trigger an event
   uvm_event_pool::get_global("test_finish_ev").trigger();
   ...
   // wait for an event 
   uvm_event_pool::get_global("test_finish_ev").wait_trigger();
{% endhighlight %}

### uvm_event with passing data
As we see the uvm_event class has parameter T `uvm_event#(type T=uvm_object)`.
This allow us to attach data with the event.

We have several supported methods for to attach data to event below:
* *`trigger(T data=null)`*: Trigger the event. If there is data passing along with the event, put the data type T in the argument.
* *`get_trigger_data()`*: Return the data type T which is provided in the `trigger()` function.
* *`wait_trigger_data(output T data)`*: wait_trigger() then get_trigger_data().
* *`wait_ptrigger_data(output T data)`*: wait_ptrigger() then get_trigger_data().

#### uvm_event_pool with passing data
As discussed above, the `uvm_event_pool` is just a `uvm_pool` of `uvm_event#(uvm_object)`.
{% highlight verilog %}
typedef uvm_object_string_pool #(uvm_event#(uvm_object)) uvm_event_pool;
{% endhighlight %}

This means that if using the `uvm_event_pool`, we can only passing data with type `uvm_object` or any of it's child class.
To have a pool which allows passing other data type, we must define a pool by ourselves, just as `uvm_event_pool` defined by uvm1.2

For example, an `uvm_event_int_pool` allows passing data type `int` along with the trigger event.
{% highlight verilog %}
typedef uvm_object_string_pool #(uvm_event#(int)) uvm_event_int_pool;
...
  uvm_event_int_pool::get_global("get_data_ev").trigger(279);
...
  int m_data;
  uvm_event_int_pool::get_global("get_data_ev").wait_trigger();

  //--> m_data be 279
  m_data = uvm_event_int_pool::get_global("get_data_ev").get_trigger_data();
{% endhighlight %}

### uvm_event callbacks
The callbacks methods are used pretty common in uvm methodology.
In this case, we will provide the functions that will be call by `uvm_event` just before and after the event is triggered.

To do this, we'll add the `uvm_event_callback` object to the event.
In this object, we will implement 2 `pre_trigger()` and `post_trigger()`.
These are 2 methods that will be call by `uvm_event` before and after trigger, respectively.

Let's look at the example below:
{% highlight verilog %}
  // create callback class
  class aes_seq_item_event_callback extends uvm_event_callback;
     virtual function bit pre_trigger(uvm_event#(T) e, T data);
        if (data != null ) data.print();
     endfunction
  endclass

  aes_seq_item_event_callback m_aes_cback = new();

  uvm_event_pool::get_global("get_seq_item_ev").add_callback(m_aes_cback); //add callback obj
  ...
  aes_seq_item m_aes_item = aes_seq_item::type_id::create("aes_seq_item");

  //--> the pre_trigger function will call m_aes_item.print() before trigger the event.
  uvm_event_pool::get_global("get_seq_item_ev").trigger(m_aes_item);

{% endhighlight %}

---
## Example
Edaplayground

---
## Finding more information
1. [ uvm_event.svh ](https://verificationacademy.com/verification-methodology-reference/uvm/docs_1.2/html/files/base/uvm_event-svh.html)
1. [ uvm_event_callback.svh ](https://verificationacademy.com/verification-methodology-reference/uvm/docs_1.2/html/files/base/uvm_event_callback-svh.html)
1. [ uvm_pool.svh ](https://verificationacademy.com/verification-methodology-reference/uvm/docs_1.2/html/files/base/uvm_pool-svh.html)


